Good afternoon.
Welcome to session 917,
What's New in Core Data?
My name is Adam Swift,
and I'm an engineer
on the Core Data team.
In this session,
we're going to talk about some of
the new functionality and APIs that
we've introduced in Snow Leopard.
The content that is in the session will
be covering just the things that are
available on the Snow Leopard seed.
None of this really applies to Leopard.
You can try it out with the CD you
picked up hopefully earlier in the week.
DVD.
We're going to talk about the
new Spotlight integration work.
We've done some work to make it easier
for you to develop your Core Data models
and evolve them over time.
And we've also introduced some
new APIs you can use to boost
your application performance.
We're breaking this
up into four sections.
First, we're going to cover the
Spotlight integration.
Then we'll go into SQL generation,
read-only property data,
and then we'll go to lightweight
migration to wrap it up.
So let's start with
Spotlight search integration.
Spotlight is an amazing
search technology,
and it just works
wonderfully on Mac OS X.
Your users want to use Spotlight
to search your application data
in a Core Data application.
But sometimes this is a problem because
Spotlight Search returns matching files.
And particularly,
when you've got a non-document
based Core Data application,
all your record data lives in one file.
And your search results,
you want to open individual records,
not the whole file.
So, for example,
when you search for guacamole,
you want the recipe, not the cookbook.
So what we've done is we've come up
with a way to create files to represent
the records you want to search.
And what this really translates
into is each file corresponds
to an individual managed object.
The path for the file encodes the managed
object ID and the store identifier.
This plays well with Spotlight
because Spotlight can search for,
index, and return individual files
representing the results that
your users want to search for.
And when they open up the file,
your application is registered to
open it by the file extension or UTI.
So how does this all work together?
We keep the files in sync with the store.
We take care of the hard part.
We create, delete,
touch these marker files,
and every you save changes to
your manage objects context.
And the file activity triggers
the indexer and uses your
importer to populate the index.
When you make changes
to one of your objects,
we update the marker file.
If you delete one of your objects,
we delete the marker file.
This new Spotlight importer is
available on the Snow Leopard seed
and it has a new project template
called the Core Data Application with
Spotlight Importer.
So the new template provides
the basic implementation,
the basic source code you need
to integrate the new Spotlight
infrastructure into your application.
It provides the code to fetch a
managed object for a marker file,
and it also provides the code
to import the properties you've
configured to be indexed in Spotlight.
How do you mark your properties
to be indexed in Spotlight?
Well, we've added some new API and new
interface to the data model design
tool that lets you mark individual
properties to be indexed in Spotlight.
So let's talk about the big picture here.
How do all these pieces work together?
You've got your Core Data Application.
There's the store.
There's Spotlight.
Well, when your user is editing data in
your Core Data application and they
save their changes to the store,
Core Data propagates the
changes that were applied there
to update the marker files.
The changes to the marker files trigger
file system events which the Spotlight
importer notices and then uses the
file path information to look up
your managed objects from the store,
fetches the property data
from those managed objects,
and then populates the Spotlight
index with that information.
Then at a later time when your
user performs a spotlight search,
they've searched the spotlight index,
which returns the marker
files matching their query.
And when they open those files,
they're registered to open
up in your application.
So how does this actually
work on the file system?
We actually provide a support folder
where all of the marker files are
saved as well as some other resources
that we use to support this feature.
By default,
the marker files are stored in a support
folder next to the persistent store,
but you can override that as the
Spotlight template does with this
option you can provide at store load,
the external records directory option.
In order to actually
create the marker files,
you need to specify an option
at store load time to provide
the spotlight file extension.
The file extension is the hook that lets
Core Data know that you want marker files
to be synchronized to your data store.
Now,
the template provides code to get access
to the managed objects from the store,
but you really want to customize it.
You have access to everything that
is available in your data store.
And there's some new API to allow you to
extract the details of what's available
from the path to the marker file.
So you can get access to
the managed object ID,
the entity name,
the managed object model path,
the store path, and the store path.
You can get access to
the managed object ID,
the entity name,
the managed object model path,
the store path,
and the store identifier purely
by looking at the path for the
support file or the marker file.
These are all available as
keys returned in a dictionary.
By registering the UTI and the
file extension for the marker
files with your application,
The launch services system
will make sure that those
files open in your application,
but it's up to you to provide the
application-specific behavior to
actually show the records that
correlate to the matching marker file.
So in general, that means highlighting or
opening up the managed object that
corresponds to that marker file.
So I'd like to give a quick
demo showing how you can set up,
you can take advantage of the
Spotlight integration work.
I'm running this on the new
Xcode 3.2 on Snow Leopard.
And we'll use the new
project assistant and find...
There we go.
Application projects.
The new Core Data application
with Spotlight importer.
And we'll create a real quick,
easy cookbook application.
I'm going to set up a very simple
model just to demonstrate how this
all works with a recipe entity.
We have two attributes.
We want a recipe name.
That'll be a string.
And we want to have directions.
for the recipe,
which will also make a string.
Obviously,
this is a fairly simplified model.
And here you can see a new part of
the property inspector allows us to
select that we want these properties
to both be indexed in Spotlight.
So we want the name and directions to
be searchable for Spotlight searches.
So we're done with our model.
And the next step,
we'll set up a simple user
interface for the app.
And this gives me a chance to show
you a great feature in Interface
Builder if you haven't seen it,
which is the Core Data Entity Assistant.
So that allows me to select my entity,
the recipe,
choose the type of view I want for it.
So I'll set that up
with a basic interface.
And there we go.
The IB guys get credit for that one.
And I think that's all we
need to do for our interface.
That's all we need in order
to create some simple recipes.
But the other work that I need to
do to enable the Spotlight searching
is I need to customize my importer.
Hello, everyone.
I'm Adam Swift.
I'm the CEO of Core Data.
I'm the CEO of
So I know that there's a number of
parameters in here I need to set.
And one is the display string.
And this will be the string
that gets displayed in the
actual Spotlight search results.
So we want to pretty
print this a little bit.
We'll say cookbook recipe.
And then we'll fill in--
turn on line wrapping.
And we'll just put the name
of the recipe in there.
Okay.
And the other thing we want
to do is if we look at this,
I should have mentioned that
this is a custom class that's
provided by the Spotlight template.
And what it does is this is the
My Spotlight Importer template class,
and it gives you one method to import
a marker file with a certain path.
So it's one place to put in
all your code for actually
populating the Spotlight index.
And it contains some code to
put together the display string,
which I just customized.
And then the other part is iterating
through all of the attributes of
the entity that's being indexed
corresponding to the marker file and
checking for each attribute if it's
configured to be indexed by Spotlight,
I want to go ahead and add that
attribute to the Spotlight index.
In this case, we're just going to use
the raw field value.
for that attribute.
And we'll put it in the
index as text container,
as MD item text container, or content.
Excuse me.
Now, if I had some relationships and
I wanted to put in some related data,
there's some code in here that I could
use to fill in those details as well.
But since I've got such a simple model,
I don't really need to worry
about that for this one.
So that's all we need to do
to actually get populating the
property values into the index.
The rest of the work we need to do is
simply providing the file extension
information and the UTIs so that all of
the pieces know how to work together.
And I'm going to use a little
shortcut here to help me find
all the places I need to do that.
So I'm going to search for--
: I'm going to search
through the whole project.
And that will show me everywhere where
I need to customize the UTI information.
And we'll just call it mycookbook.recipe.
So this is identifying and
providing a unified type
identifier for the marker files.
And then we need to also provide
a file extension for them.
So I'll call that recipe.
Now we also need to configure our
application to know that these
marker files should be opened
in our cookbook application.
So I'll put the file
extension in here too,
recipe.
And then we also need to put it
in the UTI for our marker files.
So that was my company -- no,
mycookbook.recipe.
There we go.
All right, that's done.
And the last remaining piece is
to put in the file extension and
UTIs in the Spotlight importer,
which we will also be
building for the project.
Hello, everyone.
I'm Adam Swift.
I'm the founder of Core Data.
So at this point in time,
we should have a functional application.
And I'm going to go ahead
and try and give it a run.
And there we are.
OK.
So I'm going to add a
recipe for guacamole.
[Transcript missing]
We'll put in a recipe for
another fine condiment,
salsa, mix, chopped tomato, onion.
Cilantro with some lime.
Okay.
So those are our simple recipes,
and we are done with
this part of the job.
So I'm going to quit that.
Now, I won't actually be able to perform
my Spotlight search yet because
I haven't built the Spotlight importer
and I haven't installed it in one
of the known Spotlight locations.
So let me quickly build
the Spotlight importer.
And then I will need to copy it into the
standard library Spotlight directory.
So let's...
Where did I put my cookbook application?
Grab the importer.
Put it in there.
And then with a little luck,
let's see what matches tomato.
Oh, look at that.
And it launches our application.
And if I had done the work to add
the logic to select the recipe
that I'd specified by marker file,
then it would have selected
the proper recipe as well.
And that's that.
Can we go back to slides?
So we think this is a really major
improvement in making your lives easier
for integrating Spotlight because the
really hard part of that is making sure
that you've got the data synced up in
the marker files and in your data store.
And what we've actually done is we aren't
putting the data in the marker file.
You can access it just using the
encoded managed object ID and
the reference to the store.
So one of the things
I mentioned earlier on,
but it went past pretty quickly,
is that I was talking about
non-document-based applications.
So as far as document-based applications,
Let's talk about what
we're doing with those.
The marker file synchronization
pairs the persistent store file with
the Spotlight support directory.
These two work together.
We use file paths a
lot to make this work.
Unfortunately,
we can't put the Spotlight search
directory in a document wrapper because
the Spotlight indexer won't actually go
into a wrapper file to do its indexing.
It won't see the files,
and so the marker files
won't get indexed.
Now,
putting the support folder into another
location outside of the document
wrapper doesn't work very well,
doesn't scale very well,
because documents tend to move around.
They get copied off of your computer
and onto some other computer.
So for document-based
Core Data applications,
we recommend that you continue
to use the Tiger template for
building Spotlight importers,
which is the Core Data document-based
application with Spotlight
importer template.
So quickly recapping,
try out the new template
on your Snow Leopard seed.
There's a lot of helpful details
about what you're seeing in
the importer readme file.
And then if you have questions
and you want to learn more,
please come to the lab tomorrow.
So let's move along to SQL generation.
And what we focused on for
SQL generation is giving you
more opportunities to improve the
performance of your application.
And for those of you not coming
from a database background,
SQL may not be a familiar term.
It stands for structured query language,
and it's the language that we use every
time we talk to SQLite in Core Data.
Any time we fetch objects,
we insert objects,
update and insert or delete,
it's all done through SQL.
And in SQL's view of the world,
data lives in tables filled
with columns and rows.
There's a pretty direct correlation
between SQL and Core Data.
A table corresponds to an entity,
a row corresponds to a managed object,
a column corresponds to an attribute,
and in Core Data's parlance,
a predicate translates
to a where clause in SQL.
So we use SQL to try,
so a predicate fills the
role of filtering objects
when you perform a fetch.
And when we're dealing
with an SQLite database,
the whole advantage of performance
is based on only retrieving the
objects that you really need to use.
So in order to achieve that and
only have to interact with those
objects that you want as the result,
we need to generate SQL that's
logically equivalent to the predicate.
And then we let SQL do the filtering,
and we get better performance.
So you only might fetch the
managed objects you want,
you get to do the
filtering in the database,
and you avoid doing unnecessary
work when you're able to use
SQL to filter your fetch results.
And that means the unnecessary work
of allocating space for objects
that you aren't going to use and
populating the values from the database.
And what we've done in Snow Leopard
is we've expanded our coverage of what
predicates can be translated into SQL.
And beyond the performance aspects
of the performance benefits of that,
we also,
this also means less work for you.
The alternative is you have to write
special case for unsupported predicates.
And that means fetching in all of
the objects into memory and then
evaluating the predicate in memory.
And let's take a look at how that
actually gets realized as code.
For a supported predicate,
you simply set the predicate
on your fetch request.
For an unsupported predicate,
you have to fetch all the objects back,
and then you filter the results
with an in-memory filtered
array using predicate method.
So what specifically have we added?
We've added a bunch
more functions in SQL,
support for the arithmetic functions,
bitwise operators like ands, ors,
left shifts,
String functions, regular expressions,
and a whole new category of functions
called aggregate functions that
will provide results like average,
max, min, sum, and count.
Now let's take another look
at regular expressions.
This is a great addition
because it means you've got
the full support for predicate,
for the predicate behavior
of regular expressions,
but now it can be expressed in SQLite
so you're no longer having to evaluate
the regular expression in memory.
You can do it in SQLite.
And this has full support
for Unicode strings,
including case and
diacritic insensitivity.
But you need to be mindful of performance
if you are going to do case or diacritic
insensitive regular expressions.
They are expensive,
and you might want to consider
creating a flattened derived attribute
that represents your property
value without any flattened case
normalized or diacritic normalized.
And if that just confused
the heck out of you,
I'd please encourage you to go
to Creating Efficient Data Models
with Core Data at 5 o'clock.
Melissa will be presenting that.
And a lot of other information
about how to design your data
models for better performance.
So another category of feature we've
added is something called fetch offsets.
And where this comes in handy is
when you're trying to work with
an extremely large set of data,
you've got millions
upon millions of rows.
And you want to process those rows,
but you don't want to have the overhead
of reading them all into memory at once.
So what fetch offsets allows
you to do when you combine
them with fetch limits is...
You can work with your data in batches.
A fetch offset lets you specify
the index at which you want your
fetch results to be returned from.
So let's take a quick look
at a code sample to try and
make this a little clearer.
What you can do in this
code sample you can see,
I've set a batch size of a
thousand objects and then
a loop that walks through,
sets the limit to the batch size,
and then sets the fetch
offset to the current index
multiplied by the batch size.
And then for each batch of a
thousand objects that comes back,
I can do something useful
and never do I have to fetch
in all the objects at once.
So there are a lot of functions
I listed in that table.
The function syntax and usage is
documented on your Snow Leopard seed.
It's in the foundation framework,
nsexpression.h.
And if you do try and call a
function that isn't supported,
we'll throw an exception for you.
So...
Along with the extensions
to SQL generation,
we've added another way of
accessing your data in SQLite.
And for now, when you're fetching data,
you're fetching managed objects or
you're fetching managed object IDs.
When you want to access property data,
you access the property
data through the objects.
And that gives us a way to track the
changes to property data and associate
it with the objects that it belongs in.
But there are times,
and there are certain problems,
where you want to view your data
across the lines of properties,
and you're not as
interested in the objects.
You want to look across all
objects at property values.
Some examples of that is when
you want to see distinct values
across the set of objects,
like unique dates and a list of events.
Or if you want to perform
some statistical analysis,
for example, financial data,
you want to see some totals or
you want to see an average value,
you're really not interested
in individual objects.
You're interested in the properties,
irrespective of the objects.
So if you want to do this now,
it means fetching in all the objects,
analyzing the property data
across all the objects,
and you definitely incur some
performance costs by doing that.
You're reading in a lot of extra
data that you won't be using.
So we've introduced some more API that
will let you individually select
the properties you want to fetch.
And beyond that,
We've introduced a new subclass
of property description,
which is the expression description.
And an expression description
is a way of encapsulating an
expression into something that
we can treat as a property.
So when you're specifying an
array of properties that you
want to fetch from an entity,
your expressions can represent
functions or key paths or constants
or any other kind of expression
that makes sense in that context.
The properties you can specify
are attributes or relationships,
and you can even specify your
properties as simple key paths,
string key paths.
So to really get the
most power from this,
though,
in order to get that unique set of event
dates like I was talking about before,
you want to be able to only retrieve
the rows that are different.
So if you're fetching
just for the event date,
So, let's -- there's a couple
of new things in here.
Let's walk through them one at a time.
First is this API to set that
you want to return only the
distinct results of your fetch.
: Second is identifying the properties
that you want to fetch back.
So in this case,
as I've been talking about,
we're specifying the event date.
And then the last thing is, well,
you're not fetching objects.
You're not fetching managed
object IDs right now.
What are you fetching?
How are we getting these
results back to you?
Well,
we've introduced another return type,
which is the dictionary result type.
So you'll get back your distinct result
as a set of immutable dictionaries.
And why are they read-only?
Because they may be calculated values,
they may be derived from --
taken from different entities.
They're really not something that you
can work with in a meaningful way and
expect that we can make any changes,
populate those changes
back to the database.
So your results will be returned
as immutable dictionaries,
and the keys in those dictionaries
will be based on the set of property
descriptions that you provided to us.
In the case where you've
provided a property description,
we'll use the name.
Or if you've used a string key path,
then we just send back the
string value as the key path
as the raw string as the key.
You can combine this feature with
working with managed objects in
very powerful and useful ways.
One of the ways is by specifying
that you want some object
IDs back in your results.
You can specify that you want self to
get the receiving entity's object IDs.
Or if you specify a relationship
description or a key path that
terminates in a relationship,
then we'll send back the object
ID for the related object.
Thank you.
A key path that traverses
a too many relationship,
however, will generate an error.
So I'm going to demonstrate the read-only
data sample code that is included or
is available for download from ADC.
Tell you a little bit about it and
then we'll give it a run through
and talk about how it works.
The project, this read-only data project,
demonstrates the read-only
property fetching feature,
and it uses a pretty simple model.
You've got books, and you've got friends.
Books have a replacement
cost and a title,
and you can loan your books to friends.
The project also includes
some pre-canned data,
so it's easy to run.
And we'll take a quick look here.
I don't know if -- can
you guys see that at all?
Maybe not.
We've got four books,
The Fellowship of the Ring,
$10 replacement value, Two Towers,
Return of the King, The Hobbit.
And then you've got two friends,
and two of your books have
been loaned to friends.
So I'm going to go ahead
and build the project.
And then we'll look at
the work that it does.
So there are three individual fetches
using read-only property data fetches
that occur running this application.
And
Let's see,
I'll start with the first one here.
The first one.
We'll make use of one of the new
expression description objects.
And what this expression description
will represent is the total
replacement cost of all of your books.
And the way we calculate that
is by specifying a function
expression to calculate the sum.
And then the key path to the
replacement cost on the books entity.
Let's see if I can have a
pre-canned script to run this
with some additional SQL logging.
Well, maybe I don't.
What is this called?
Run read only.
Oh, okay.
[Transcript missing]
Which is a... Well, let's see.
This is getting way too busy here.
So what I did is I turned on the
SQL logging so we can see the actual
SQL command being issued to SQLite.
And then in the project itself,
we log the results of the fetch.
So the fetch was, as I said,
specified with an
expression that calculates,
that applies the sum function
to the replacement cost key path
and then takes the dictionaries
that are returned by the fetch,
[Transcript missing]
I don't know if you can,
I guess maybe you can see that.
It basically just shows that the work
to calculate that result was done in
the database using a select command.
So, I think...
So for the second fetch,
what we're actually
seeing is two properties.
Hello, everyone.
I'm Adam Swift.
I'm the founder of Snow Leopard.
And then perform the search.
And then we log the result
as read only data fetch 2.
So let's see what that result looks like.
And you can see here,
the result we got back was a series
of dictionaries containing "loan
to" with managed object IDs pointing
to the friend that the book was
loaned to and the title of the book.
And in our last fetch,
we're going to add one more
parameter to -- or one more
property description to the set of
properties that we're going to fetch,
and that is a property description,
an expression description
representing the manage object
ID of the book that we are printing
And we'll give it a name, book ID.
Expression result type is
object ID attribute type.
To represent the managed object ID,
we use the NS expression
for evaluated object.
And when we look at the
results of that fetch,
We can see in addition to the title and
the friend that the book was loaned to,
we now also get a reference
to the book's manage object
ID returned under the key book ID.
So this is a very flexible,
powerful feature.
You can get a lot of use out of it.
There are a lot of other uses
which I hope you'll get to explore
when you try it out yourself.
Can we switch back to slides?
All right.
So the last subject we're going to
cover here is lightweight migration.
And
When we talk about models
and stores in Core Data,
we all know that a store must be
open with the model that created it.
In Leopard,
we added a new feature we called
model versioning and store migration.
And it is a really powerful feature
that lets you describe a mapping model,
to create a mapping model to
describe changes that can be
very complicated and flexible,
and then a migration manager to
perform those changes to migrate
data from one store to another.
And this feature is designed to
handle any kind of migration.
Very flexible, very powerful.
and you can learn a lot about
this and other tips and tricks for
working with Core Data on Leopard
at Miguel's session coming up at
3:30 after this one in Russian Hill.
One of the things we found is that when
you're talking about developing your
data model and the changes that happen,
the workflow of developing
a data model over time,
is that there's sort of two categories
of the types of changes you see.
For major version releases
and major new features,
you have to introduce major
changes to your data model.
But during the bulk of
the development time,
when you're really working
with the code and you're eking
out performance improvements
and you're tweaking features,
your changes tend to be
pretty limited in scope.
And in many cases, they're trivial.
This happens a lot.
You tend to get a lot of model churn
during this development process,
especially when you're trying
to focus on performance.
And what we found in our experience and
others have given us the same feedback
that it can be very -- it can be hard
to keep up with mapping models over
time as you're trying to deal with
these many small incremental changes.
So you create version
one of your data model,
and then you realize you've made
a typo or forgotten some small
feature or detail in your objects.
And so you add 1.1.
Well, at that point in time,
the people who have been testing
your application and giving you
the feedback on your application,
they want to be able to preserve the
data that they've built up so far.
So you need to build a mapping
model to make that possible,
to translate the data from
one store to the next.
Well,
then you've gone and realized that there
was another change you needed to make.
Somebody came in with
a last minute request.
So you come up with 1.2.
And then again, to preserve the data that
people have been working with,
you add another mapping model to
carry the data from 1.1 to 1.2.
But then there's the people
who never tried or installed
the version that used 1.1,
so you need yet another mapping
model to get from 1.0 to 1.2.
So, over time, obviously,
this becomes very time consuming and
There has to be a better way.
And what we've discovered is that
during this real heavy model evolution,
the time where you're
making all these changes,
most of those changes are pretty small.
So we figured out how to create a
mapping model based on analyzing
two data models with small changes
between them and inferring a
mapping model directly from them.
And so we've introduced some
new API to let you call this
directly on NS Mapping Model.
And we've taken it a step further
to allow you to specify another key
at the time that you load your store
to automatically infer a mapping
model and then perform the migration.
Just as with the original
migration support,
we use the store version hashes
to look up the source data model,
which you need to have available for
us to be able to create a mapping model
between the old version and the new.
So what kind of changes can we actually
handle for inferring a mapping model?
What's inferrable?
Well, it basically comes down to can we
do the right thing with your data?
Is it unambiguous what we should do with
the data that you've created in the old
version of the store when we copy it
over and migrate it to the new version?
So what are the kinds of
things that we can do?
Well, if you delete an attribute,
that's obvious.
We just get rid of the data for that.
If you rename an attribute, well,
we can just save the
data under the new name.
But if you're adding an
attribute or a relationship,
then it either needs to be optional
or provide a default value.
Otherwise, we don't know what data
to put into the new store.
Let's talk about renaming.
When you're looking at two data models,
You can't really tell whether you've
got one attribute being deleted
and one being added or if it's
just one attribute being renamed.
So you need to use the renaming
identifier and you set the
naming identifier to the name
used in the original model.
So that way we know to take
the value from the old model,
from the old data,
and put it in under the
new name in your new model.
Now, there's new API to support this,
and there's also support in the
new modeling tool in the seed of
Snow Leopard where you can specify
directly in the interface the
renaming identifier in your model.
So I'd like to take a minute
to demonstrate this feature.
And we'll use the old
cookbook application we
built just a few minutes ago.
So we've realized that with our cookbook,
we forgot to include the
author of our recipes.
Now, before I go and change the
model to add this attribute,
I want to be able to preserve
the data I already created.
I already put together some recipes,
and I don't want to lose it.
If I change my model,
I won't be able to read it in unless
I keep a copy of the old model
so that we can infer the mapping
and then perform the migration.
So I'm going to use the data
model menu to add a model version.
And that way I'll preserve the
existing version of my model,
but be able to make a change to a new
version so I can introduce the author.
And we'll make that a string.
So I also need to make a change
to the template code because it's
going to look for the old version
-- the old name of the model,
a nonversion model.
And I've just created a bundle
-- a model version bundle that
contains two versions of my model.
So in order to make sure I get the right
[Transcript missing]
What I also need to do is add
the keys to my options dictionary
so that when I load the store,
it will automatically migrate the...
is the founder of Core Data.
He's the founder of the new API,
which is the new API.
He's
So it worked.
All right.
Can we switch back to slides, please?
Okay,
so one of the things that we've done on
top of the lightweight migration work
and inferring a mapping model is to try
and do migrations in place within SQLite.
And this has been driven by a desire to
deal with large data files and be able
to perform all of the work to migrate
data from one version of your data model
to another version of your data model
without having to read in any objects and
to make the changes directly in SQLite
using SQL to perform the table changes.
And we can migrate some of the
inferred mapping models with the
in-place migration in SQLite.
And what we support is all the
inferable changes to attributes
that were listed before.
So deletes, renames,
adding an optional or
attribute with a default value,
and changing types, optionality,
or transients.
The in-place migration support
is part of a bigger feature
for store-specific migration.
So if you have developed
your own custom store,
you can specify your own custom
migration manager class to perform
a custom migration for yourself.
And that's available through some
new API on NS Persistence Store.
In terms of debugging
lightweight migration,
you can use the existing migration
logging feature using the user default
com apple core data migration debug.
And a note on the SQLite
in-place migration.
The in-place migration manager will
only attempt a migration if the
mapping model has been inferred.
But if you want to try it out and see
what's actually happening under the hood,
you can turn on the SQL logging
and see the changes that
are happening to your data.
We've got a couple
more Core Data sessions
coming up after this one.
There's Core Data tips and
tricks at 3:30 in Russian Hill.
Creating efficient data models
with Core Data at 5 o'clock.
And then tomorrow we're available
at 2 o'clock for the Core Data Lab.
For more information,
contact Mike Jurowicz,
Developer Tools Evangelist,
jurowicz@apple.com.
Or send messages to ask your
questions on the Cocoa Dev mailing
list at cocodev@lists.apple.com.
And please, send us all the feedback you
can on what we've introduced and
what you might want in addition.
Use the bug reporter website,
bugreport.apple.com.